---
layout: post
title: "Mobile Friendly"
date: 2015-03-23 20:25:46
author: Phil Switzer
categories: 
- blog
img: google-mobile-responsive-design.jpg
courtesy: searchengineland.com
thumb: google-mobile-responsive-design.jpg
permalink: /oklahoma-city/mobile-friendly/
---

<b>Mobile-Friendly</b> is a catchy term that is getting a lot of press online right now. Indeed it is very important for your website and the individual pages to be mobile friendly. But how does this affect your business? Let's start with a few statistics to help set the stage. More than <b>60%</b> of searches online are happening on mobile devices. That means only 40% of searchs are being executed from a traditional brownser on a PC. Secondly, <b>73%</b> of consumers access websites from their mobile phones but only <b>20% are mobile friendly!!!</b>

This is an important realization. More than half of the traffic to most websites is being generated on mobile phones!! <!--more-->
In order to keep up with the changes that are being implemented by Google, your website needs to be mobile-friendly. Don't miss out on 50% of the revenue generated by searches for your keywords for something so simple. 

So how does this actually have an effect on you? On <a href="http://googlewebmastercentral.blogspot.ca/2015/02/finding-more-mobile-friendly-search.html" target="_blank">April 21st, 2015</a> Google will bring down the axe on mobile searches. There are basically two independant sets of search results for keywords. The first is for desktop, the traditional search result platform. The second is the mobile resultset. This is the primary dataset that will be impacted come April 21st. If your website is not mobile friendly, even if it is a great match for the keyword, it will not show up before mobile friendly sites. WOW! Now Google has not specifically stated that non-mobile results will be changed. We believe they will absolutely be impacted. 

For those who don't know how Google works, let's take a quick detour. Google is constantly crawling websites online. They are looking for the most relevant, fastest, most acurate result for the keyword you are searching for. They will serve you up results for the search request. Lets say 100 people search for "dentist norman". If 50 of those people live in Norman, OK and click on the 10th website listed, it will receive a higher ranking moving forward. SOOOOO, if your mobile site is receiving more traffic than your competition, it only makes sense that your desktop rankings would improve as well. 

Our customers get to sit back and enjoy the results that we bring because every client of ours has a mobile-friendly site. This can come in the form of a "Responsive" site or a separate mobile website. We have other blog posts on Responsive and Mobile that you can check out if you would like to read more about those. Contact us today for a <b>FREE</b> <strong>Oklahoma City SEO</strong> analysis.